---
title: "µflix: Easy Plex Server"
layout: post
tags:
  - code
  - linux
---

Movies are really __really__ great.

Ever since I started to prepare for the great apocalypse
that will wipe the world of sin I thought to myself:
"Wouldn't it be __really__ great if I could keep all the movies I love?
So my children, and my children's children will think I'm cool?"
Keeping with the sin theme I decided to use [Plex][plex], a non-FOSS Media
Server, to ensure that my taste outlives me.

So if you love hoarding movies (but don't watch hoarders) and
preparing for the end (but haven't seen that reality show about that)
you'll love my new Plex container which is _dead simple_ to use.

The project is [hosted on GitHub][github] and is built on Docker.
If you're unfamiliar with Docker, its a container framework,
and containers are kernel namespaces. The important metaphor
here is that containers are like shipping containers:
standardized, plug-n-play, and (sometimes) have lots of wasted space.
Basically you get an app running with all the dependencies, configuration,
etc. done for you! And its really easy to get rid of afterward
(unlike KDE, but I'm excited to try out NixOS, which is another solution to the KDE problem)!

After [installing docker][docker] all you need to set up your server is:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/illegalprime/uflix.git
cd uflix
sudo ./build
```

## Its got features!

 - No Configuration!
 - Easy to deploy, remove, and copy.
 - Just re-run `sudo ./build` to update!
 - Supports local discovery with `avahi`!
 - Mount as many drives or directories as you want with command line args
 - SSH Access to poke around

To run simply call:

```bash
sudo ./start --metadata <plex metadata dir / disk>
```

The only required command line arg is where to store the Plex metadata.
This makes it easy to clone servers since you only need to copy your data drives.

Even with all this cool tech a more serious question remains, if we could
_only_ save one terabyte of movies for the future which ones would they be?

I have my list. Do you?

[github]: https://github.com/illegalprime/uflix
[plex]: https://plex.tv
[docker]: https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/linux/ubuntulinux/
